So now I'd like to take what we've learned so far with generators and iterators and kind of apply it
to something that's more practical now we're going to start simple and then we're going to grow from
there.
But essentially the source of a lot of the excitement with generator functions is asynchronous programming
now as we all know asynchronous program is kind of a double edged sword in javascript when you're using
something like callbacks.
It can be pretty straightforward if it's something simple you have a set number of things you need to
do.
But as your task grow more and more complex it becomes harder to organize your code.
I've talked to you about the problems with callbacks the trust issues the different things like it's
hard to think about them it's hard to even reason about them because they operate of counter-intuitively.
But with that being said we can use generator functions because they have a yield statement which means
that execution will stop until the next method is called again.
So in other words we can use a sequence of asynchronous tasks without having to work with callbacks
which is cool.
So what I'm going to do is write out some code and then we're going to talk about it.
I'm going to do function and I'm going to run.
It's going to be a task runner and then I'll do a task Def an inside of here what I'll do is I'll store
let task equals task def like so then after that Minah store the results task if I can get it task next.
Then after that I'm going to do something a little different something to do function.
Step inside of here I'm going to do a check if not result daat done.
In that case we're going to do.
Result equals task.
Next And then next then almoner recursively call the step function and outside of there I'm going to
recall it for the first time.
Then outside of this function I go ahead and do run and I'm going to pass in a generator function so
all the function it'll be anonymous so No-Name here just a star inside of here I'm just going to yield
one yield to yield three.
Like I said we're going to keep it simple at first just to kind of illustrate the concept.
And just to keep track of everything.
I'm going to do a consulate log here.
Results da value of my copy and I'm going to throw it right down here just below the result that we
change there.
So now if I save this you'll see it prints out 1 2 3 like so.
And if I remove the value notation and actually print out the result object like so.
So what did I do.
Well I made a task runner which the idea is that will get passed in a generator function right here
and it's going to have some yield statements.
Now obviously we're just yielding 1 to 3 but we could definitely pass on something a little more complex.
But for now we're just passing in a simple generator.
And then what I do once it's passed in is I call the generator and that's going to return the iterator.
And then what I do is I call a task.
Next on the variable right here.
And so as we know whenever we call a task done next it's going to return this results object right here.
So I store the results object and then after that I create a function that I later call care whenever
I call this function what happens is we check if result.
Da done is equal to true.
And if it's not equal to true.
In other words if it's false that means we're not done iterating.
So in that case I call task.
Next again and I update the results so that way we always have the most up to date results inside of
our results variable right here.
And I of course canceled all logging and then I called Step again recursively.
So it does this check again and again and again until done is equal to true.
And whenever done is equal to true or false in this case then it's going to basically not use this conditional
again.
So the function will not be called recursively and then we are done with our task.